{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21440\viewh21120\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs38 \cf0 SimpleCocoaVTK 3.0\
2016-09-12\
by: Sean McBride and Mike Jackson\

\fs34 \
\ul Pre-Requisites:\
\ulnone \
1) you need Mac OS X 10.9.5 or later\
2) you need Xcode 6.2 or later.\
3) you need CMake 2.8.12 or later.\
4) you need to know the basics of Xcode, CMake, VTK, and Cocoa already.\
5) you have to build VTK separately.  The Xcode project expects VTK to be built with certain options, see below.\
\
\ul Purpose of Example:\
\ulnone \
This simple example is intended to show how to use VTK in a Mac-only Xcode-based Cocoa application.  VTK's vtkCocoaGLView is a subclass of NSView and you can use it like pretty much any other NSView!\
\
This example is an NSDocument-based application with a single window controller. The window has two independent vtkCocoaGLViews in the XIB.  One shows a cone, and one shows a cylinder.\
\
See the screenshot (in the same folder as this file) to see what the app looks like.\
\
\ul Instructions:\
\ulnone \
First, you need to build VTK.  SimpleCocoaVTK requires that you build VTK with the following non-default options:\
	BUILD_SHARED_LIBS				OFF                                                                                                                                         \
	CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE				Debug                                                                                                                                       \
	VTK_CUSTOM_LIBRARY_SUFFIX	<empty string>\
\
It is recommended to also use these options, and you should synchronize your choices with the SimpleCocoaVTK.xcconfig file:                                                                                                                                     	CMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES			(as desired)\
	CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT						(as desired)\
	CMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET		(as desired)\
\
The other settings are not so relevant or their defaults are fine.  If you've never built VTK before, please see Ryan Glover's excellent document here: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.vtk.org/Wiki/Cocoa_VTK"}}{\fldrslt http://www.vtk.org/Wiki/Cocoa_VTK}}>.  Make sure you both build and install VTK!\
\
Next, you have to create two Source Trees in Xcode, named "vtk-debug-include" and "vtk-debug-lib".  Do this from Preferences > Locations > Source Trees.  Both should point to subfolders of where your installed VTK is.  If you install into the default /usr/local/, set them like so:\
\
	vtk-debug-include			/usr/local/include/vtk-7.1\
	vtk-debug-lib				/usr/local/lib\
\
Note that the path changes depending on your version of VTK.  Basically, you want the source trees to match your CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX setting.\
\
All the vtk files in the Xcode project are referenced relative to the source tree.  This allows you to have your vtk files anywhere without changing the project itself. If they appear in red in Xcode, it's probably because your source trees are missing or wrong.\
\
Now you should be able to build the project!\
\
The code has many comments, and hopefully they will answer any questions you may have.\
\
If you have any problems, please post to the vtkusers mailing list.\
<{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://public.kitware.com/mailman/listinfo/vtkusers"}}{\fldrslt http://public.kitware.com/mailman/listinfo/vtkusers}}>\
\
\ul \ulc0 Version History:\
\ulnone \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 3.0 (since 2.0)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - Now require newer Xcode and more modern Objective-C dialect.\
- Now require building VTK with VTK_CUSTOM_LIBRARY_SUFFIX=<empty string>, which is best practice anyway if using Xcode, so that the CMake-built VTK libraries don't constantly change filenames (by having the version number embedded).\
- Added a window controller class, which is more idiomatic.\
- The example now uses ARC (automatic reference counting) memory management by default. (This doesn't mean VTK needs to compiled as ARC, indeed, it cannot yet be.)\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 2.0 (since 1.9)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - updated for VTK 7.1.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 1.9 (since 1.8)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - updated for VTK 6.3.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 1.8 (since 1.7)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - updated for VTK 6 and 10.7+ / Xcode 4+.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 1.7 (since 1.6)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - this example can now be built by CMake.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 1.6 (since 1.5)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - converted all nibs to xibs.\
- the Xcode project had a reference to a path on my disk, removed.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 1.5 (since 1.4)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - now use two source trees instead of one.\
- updated example to better reflect current versions of VTK, Mac OS, and Xcode.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 1.4 (since 1.3)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - removed prefix file\
- renamed main.m to main.mm\
- converted tabs to spaces\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 Changes in 1.3 (since 1.2)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - switched to using just one Source Tree\
- tested in Mac OS X 10.5 and Xcode 3\
- improved these instructions\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 \
Changes in 1.2 (since 1.1)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - using smart pointers\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i \cf0 \
Changes in 1.1 (since 1.0)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\tx7380\tx7940\tx8520\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\i0 \cf0 - fixed some memory leaks\
- minor code cleanup\
- added call to print out any leaking vtk objects\
- linked to Ryan Glover's great instructions on how to build vtk\
}